>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>It felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well, we can
all use extra brain power.
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory with
our special guest,
Coach Bob, Bob Glotzhober.
Bob has been a Real Life Change
Coach for a number of years.
And what does that exactly mean?
He's changing your life.
He's changing your business.
He's changing your
approach to how
you've seen things in the past
so you could look at things
differently in the future.
Welcome back to "Beyond
Belief," Coach Bob.
Always a pleasure.
>>BOB GLOTZHOBER: Thanks
for having me, George.
>>NOORY: It's always
fun to chat with you,
because I've known you for so
many years in Detroit, Detroit
being the old hometown.
It's been fun watching you
change and progress and go
through this evolution,
too, isn't it?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Yes, yes,
you've had a firsthand view
of what I've gone through.
And like you say, the
experiences we have change us.
And our brain can
allow us to determine
the experiences we have.
So we're in a lot more
control than we think.
>>NOORY: You've gone
from an average golfer
to a good golfer, haven't you?
[LAUGHS]
>>GLOTZHOBER: It's amazing.
I had my lowest handicap
this year of my whole life,
and I'm 65.
So that's pretty wild.
>>NOORY: That's good.
Well, does a program like
this, the Real Change program,
does that help people lower
your golf score, better
your relationship,
get a better job?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Yes, it does.
A friend of mine
was always perplexed
trying to figure out what I do.
And he says, Bob,
he says, what you do
is the thing before the thing.
And what he meant is that no
matter what we're dealing with,
our attitude, our emotions,
our state of mind when
we take something on is going to
determine how we move forward.
I refer to it as mood matters.
If I'm angry or if
I'm fearful, I'm
going to make different
decisions than if I'm calm.
And so whenever
you're dealing with,
it's so much easier to calm
down and let your brain be
the best it can be than to try
to memorize 12 steps to try
to do something different.
>>NOORY: In our previous
"Beyond Belief" program, Bob,
we talked about energy
and people's ability
to tap into this universal
force that's out there.
Let's concentrate on
this program about what
you call the magic of the mind.
And how important is the
mind to creating this change?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Right, and
that's really the first step
of changing your energy.
It's your brain that's
going to change your energy.
And so it's understanding
how it works.
And it's basically a
three-step process.
Our brain takes in, our
senses take in information,
whether we hear something,
we taste something,
we see something.
Immediately, our brain is so
sophisticated it immediately
gives us an emotion of whether
to approach or avoid, fight
or flee.
And then our cognitive
part of our brain
thinks about, OK, what's
the best way in which
to follow those instructions?
And that's how
we're put together.
And so understanding
that process is critical
if you really want to change
the way you do things.
>>NOORY: Are we tapping
into a subconscious?
Or is there something
physical in the brain?
>>GLOTZHOBER: We
don't really know.
The holy grail of
neuroscience is
trying to figure
out, does the brain
or how does the brain
create the mind?
And so that's still
a wide-open question.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>GLOTZHOBER: My personal belief
is that they're definitely
connected.
And when you learn to use what
you're conscious of, which
is the way my brain
gives me emotions,
the way my brain
gives me thoughts,
I then can use that
to be able to then tap
into my unconscious so that I
can be directed automatically
in the ways that I
choose to want to go,
not necessarily the way my
ancestral brain wants me to go.
>>NOORY: Real doctors
and scientists
will say it's always
the brain, it's
the physical brain
that does everything.
Meta-physicians, on the
other hand, would say,
no, it's the subconscious
mind, it's the conscious mind.
Maybe the two of them
just work together.
>>GLOTZHOBER: It's a
guess at this point,
but I think they
definitely work together.
And even if you're a
scientist, and this
is why sometimes science, I have
a little bit of a tough time
with it, although I
really get into science,
is that everything we've
learned as scientists,
we find out is not true.
Copernicus found out
that the Earth is
at the center of the universe.
Newton found out about gravity.
Einstein proved Newton's
laws a little wrong.
So science is constantly
finding out that they're wrong.
And so I don't think we should
marry ourselves to any belief.
But I think it's pretty
obvious right now that we
can use our brain to
control our emotions, which
in fact controls our lives.
So I think they are
hooked together.
>>NOORY: Speaking of
emotions, how many times
have we witnessed, for example,
in a store a mother slapping
their little baby
because they're screaming
or someone under tension
who just loses it?
I've seen people under
extreme conditions
just fall apart, just crumble.
I happen to be one
of those people, Bob,
that during a moment of
strife, I get stronger.
I don't panic.
I don't run around with my
head cut off, going, oh,
my God, what's going to happen?
I react quickly and fast
to just about any episode,
whether it's a
grandchild who falls
and you might need to get them
into a hospital or something.
Panicking doesn't do anything.
How do you control
those kinds of emotions
so that you can control
the direction of your life?
>>GLOTZHOBER: OK, it
starts with understanding
how your brain's operating.
What's happening is the
information that you have
up in your brain consists
of two things, the DNA
that you got from your parents--
>>NOORY: That you're stuck with.
>>GLOTZHOBER: And
you're stuck with it.
>>NOORY: Good or bad.
>>GLOTZHOBER: Good or
bad-- most of it's good.
I mean, we don't have to
learn how to beat our hearts
or how to breathe
or any of that.
All that information is
given to us, which is good.
On top of that,
what's up in here
is our memories
from this lifetime.
So any time you're
going to do something,
your brain immediately checks
its DNA and your past memories
and spits out to you
the most appropriate way
for you to respond based
on the information it has.
So people that act like
you and can respond
under pressure, for some
reason in your memory bank
and in your DNA, your brain
knows that your calm emotions
are in your best interest.
If that's not how you're
wired, if in fact you're
wired that your brain says,
it's all about survival,
my life's been very
dangerous, I've
had to fight or flee to
keep from being whacked,
well then when you're
under pressure,
you're going to
run away or you're
going to be argumentative.
You can really see
this in the workplace.
Take a look at all
your coworkers.
You'll see some of them,
when there's pressure,
are going to fight
and get aggressive.
Some aren't going to show
up for work because they're
so afraid because the job is
not going the way it should be
and they feel responsible.
So the first thing to
do for change is to see,
how is my brain wired?
What are my tendencies?
And once you see that
the tendency to be calm
is so much better than your
tendency to fight or flee,
now you have a chance.
Because your brain
wants to survive.
And if you can
convince your brain
that being calm in
pressure situations
will make it survive
better, which it will,
it will buy in, that's
why we can change.
>>NOORY: In your
experience, how many people
actually want to be able
to control these emotions,
to control the
ability of the mind
to be calm in these
incredible situations?
Or do they just not care?
>>GLOTZHOBER: That's a question
that's been perplexing me
since I started coaching.
Why, when I was 40, did I
finally choose to be different?
Why do people choose
to find a coach?
Or why do people choose
to pick up a book
or take a training
course because now
is the time for them
to be different?
And that's something that's
hanging out there that we still
can't get our mitts on.
And I keep thinking about that,
because, boy, I would really
like to have some
type of technique
to make people be
more motivated.
Because once you're
motivated, you can do it.
But why people aren't motivated,
that's still a mystery to us.
>>NOORY: Social
networking, which
is, I think,
revolutionizing and changing
the face of this planet, has
its good moments and its bad.
One of the bad is
people are subjected
to cyber bullying
and things like that,
to the point where some
children have committed suicide
because others
attack them socially.
How do you fight
something like that?
How do you look at some
things-- maybe you're online,
and you're getting
attacked from people.
I mean, Facebook for example,
somebody will post a picture,
and you'll see
people rip them up.
And then they try to
fight back, and I'm
looking at this, going, don't
even get involved with that.
It's petty.
Move on.
But it pulls down
their entire life.
It effects them.
It ruins their day.
How do you step above that?
>>GLOTZHOBER: I
think somehow we have
to communicate through
our government,
through our schools,
maybe in the home.
Maybe the place to start is for
us to teach our young to say,
do we want more
peaceful and more joyful
energy in the world?
Or do we want more negative
and more angry and more fearful
energy in the world?
We're not asking that question.
But when we're
asked that question,
we're going to choose
more peaceful and joyful,
because that's what
we want for ourselves.
And so if you're
on social network,
just like we talked about
in the last episode,
we talked about road rage.
It's no different in
social networking.
Somebody says something
that makes you mad.
You want to slam right back.
If you can just take
a step back and say,
am I'm going to be better
off if I put better energy
into the world or more negative
energy, that's the message we
need to get across.
>>NOORY: You were talking about
some techniques of how people
can help change their approach.
What are some of the
things people can do?
>>GLOTZHOBER: OK, the
first thing they can do
is spend the time to get
to know how they operate.
Once you realize that what
you're thinking right now
and what you're
feeling right now
is because you're
a biological robot,
you think what you are
thinking right now because
of your DNA and
your past memories,
that's all you have to draw on.
But you also have a new
part of your brain, which
is your cognitive
brain that's pushing up
against your forehead that
can sit back and say, now wait
a minute, this is
what I'm feeling
because of what I've come from.
Do I really want to go
there with this right now?
Or do I want to take a
step back and maybe change
the energy I'm going
to give the situation?
That's the way you
go about changing.
It starts with first
understanding how you operate,
second being able to
let your conscious mind
observe who you are
right now instead of just
being that biological robot.
Like playing monopoly, you've
got a Get out of Jail Free card
right here.
You can get out of
that biological prison
and make different choices,
which will change your life.
>>NOORY: Coach
Bob, Real Change--
when people come to you, what
are they generally coming
to you for?
They obviously know
they need some help.
>>GLOTZHOBER: Yes, and this
is kind of another catch-22.
People come to me because
they have an issue.
I wish they would come to me--
>>NOORY: I mean, you're
not a psychiatrist, right?
You're not a medical doctor.
>>GLOTZHOBER: No.
>>NOORY: You deal with the mind,
but you're not into medicine.
You don't prescribe.
You don't put them on
mood-altering drugs.
You don't like to be
called a psychotherapist.
So when they come to you, I
mean, what are they asking for?
>>GLOTZHOBER: What
they're doing is
they've tried all those other
remedies, and it hasn't worked.
And so they find me because
they've got a problem that they
don't know how to get over.
And that's how they find me.
And of course, the good
thing is that they're here.
But I wish people would take
the time to prepare themselves
for the bad news
that's coming so
that when the bad news
comes, they can handle it.
It's much easier
to do it that way.
It's like in health care.
Prevention is a lot better
than getting a disease
and then having to
deal with it then.
But to answer your
question, when
they come to me with
problems, they'll never
admit right away what it is.
For example, a businessman
may be coming to me
and he may be saying, I've
got cash flow problems,
I've got some shortage.
But the more you get into it--
>>NOORY: He's coming to
you for a loan, isn't he?
[BOTH LAUGH]
>>GLOTZHOBER: But
then it branches.
And you find out that the
negative energy running through
and the angst that he has is
happening in his household.
He's got problems maybe with
his spouse or with his children.
And so generally when
people come to me,
I pretty much know that what
they're coming to me for
isn't the real issue.
Because it's generally
something very personal, and so
it takes a while for
me to get to know them
in individual
coaching situations
before I really understand
what they are asking me for.
>>NOORY: How important
is it for a child
to be raised in this
loving environment?
I was very fortunate.
My sisters were very
fortunate that we
have and had two
loving parents who
cared about us, who
were involved in what
we did career-wise,
who were involved
in what we did emotionally.
And they always
seemed to be there.
And I think that was important.
I think that was one of
the reasons why I had such
a great foundation in my life.
I'll tell you a funny
story about my mother
who's 85 years old.
She taught me how
to play baseball.
She would take us
into the backyard
of our house in Dearborn
Heights, Michigan,
and would pitch a
tennis ball to me.
And the day I hit it over the
roof of our house, she said,
you're ready to play.
And I became very
good at what I did.
I was in Little League
All-Star player and all that.
I actually wanted to play
for the Detroit Tigers.
I wasn't quite that good.
But the emotional attachment
to your family and the way
they treat you is so critical.
But I remember one day when I
was about 9 or 10 years old.
And the neighborhood kids
all have squirt guns.
I did not.
And they were squirting
me on a hot summer day.
Now, I should have said,
hey, this is really great.
This is cool.
But I didn't.
I ran home crying,
Mom, Mom, they just
shot me with a squirt gun.
I've got water all over my face.
What are we going to do?
She said, Georgie,
don't worry about that.
Just call them up and tell them
to come over for some Kool-Aid.
And I went, no, I don't
want them over here.
Go head, Georgie, go ahead.
So went across the street, and
they're still shooting at me.
And I said, come on
over for some Kool-Aid.
And they went, what?
I said, yeah, come on
over for some Kool-Aid.
So as they came over
across the street,
Mom was hiding in the back
with a bucket of water.
And as these three of
them, three kids came,
she came running around
the house behind them
and drenched all three
of them with water.
They went home crying.
And she said, they'll
never do that to you again.
And she was right.
But that's the
kind of environment
I was brought up in.
And I think it's pay
dividends in my life.
How many people don't
have that opportunity?
So how do they
compensate for that?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Well, I think
from a parent standpoint, what
I try to pass on to parents is
there's a big, big difference
between learning and judging.
You want your children
to keep learning
from their experiences.
You don't want to judge them
because of their experiences.
And I think that's one of
the most important things you
can do.
I had a couple that's
very close to me
that I've done some work with
from a business standpoint.
Their daughter is a sophomore
right now in high school.
In the summer they
approached me.
And they wanted her,
because she wanted to,
make the high school golf team.
And I said, well, how
much golf has she played?
This was the first part of July.
>>NOORY: That would be the
logical first question.
>>GLOTZHOBER: And this
is the 1st of July.
And they said, well,
she's never played.
>>NOORY: Oh, but she
wants to make the team.
>>GLOTZHOBER: And she
So I figured tryouts are
going to be in September when
school starts.
Wrong-- tryouts are August 13.
So we have six weeks.
>>NOORY: To get her ready.
>>GLOTZHOBER: And
the team, by the way,
this year finished fourth
in the state of Michigan.
So it's a good team.
And it was really amazing,
because they sign up,
and they immediately get
a letter from the coach.
And they send me the email.
And the coach wants
to know, well, what
has Madison's experiences been?
And they didn't
know how to respond.
And of course,
like most parents,
they want to know, well,
how do I write this to try
to make my daughter look good?
>>NOORY: Make them
sound better, yeah.
>>GLOTZHOBER: And
I says, no, no, no.
You want to be able to say
that she's having fun learning.
She's just started.
She's probably not
going to make the team.
But hopefully she'll
make it next year.
And we appreciate
that you're giving her
the chance to try out.
And I sent them that script.
They send it to the coach.
The coach sees her.
And when they see her--
because we worked every day.
We worked hard.
Sees her, and they say, this
kid is this good after only six
week?
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>GLOTZHOBER: And
she makes the team.
>>NOORY: That is amazing.
>>GLOTZHOBER: And so it was
all about let's not judge
how fast we're going.
Let's just have fun
learning every day.
And so we just had fun
And kids can do so much,
because they have no boundaries,
if you just let
them grow and keep
the judgment away from them.
>>NOORY: Two-part
question for you--
what has been the most
frustrating part of what
you do?
>>GLOTZHOBER: The
most frustrating part
for sure, and that's
what I'm hoping
I'm building into
my new programs,
because you keep learning, is
that people are who they are.
The brain is used to coming up
with the same type of behavior.
Behavioral change is
so difficult, George,
that if you don't remind
them and stay on them
and stay on them--
>>NOORY: They slip back.
>>GLOTZHOBER: They slip back.
And so even though I've share
a lot of wonderful information,
since I wasn't
able to really keep
them motivated throughout
the whole process,
they just didn't
finish the process.
And it always kind
of broke my heart.
And that's one of the things
I'm working the hardest on,
is how to keep people engaged
until they get what they want.
>>NOORY: What has been the
most heartwarming thing
of Real Change?
>>GLOTZHOBER: This young
lady making her golf team.
>>NOORY: You like that.
>>GLOTZHOBER: It was an
impossible thing to do,
and I told them, let's
just manage our energy,
because if we just
to meet every day
and learn, then
the next day, we're
going to know more
than the day before.
And who knows if we're
going to know enough
when it comes time for tryouts?
But it's going to be
the best we can be.
So my biggest
satisfaction is when
people just get into
the learning process
and use their brains to learn
and not judge themselves
for how much they're learning,
and they just see their growth
and they keep progressing.
>>NOORY: How many
people, Bob, really
understand that they might have
issues, they may have problems,
they need to solve them?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Most people don't.
>>NOORY: They don't recognize.
>>GLOTZHOBER: No,
again, your brain
has your DNA and
your past memories,
so when it sees anything,
it just automatically
gives you the story.
Your brain thinks, oh,
yeah, this is the story.
It's real.
And so you keep
following your stories.
You don't realize
that it's just a story
and that it's a
story you can change
if you don't like the story.
So getting people to learn to
take that step back and look
at the stories they're following
is the real watershed moment
if they can get there.
>>NOORY: Real Change-- Coach
Bob, how do people find you?
>>GLOTZHOBER: They find
me through my website,
www.realchangecoach.com.
>>NOORY: Do you travel much
where you go see clients?
>>GLOTZHOBER: I will
Skype, phone, travel,
whatever it takes.
>>NOORY: Technology has made
things easier, hasn't it?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Technology has
made it a lot easier, for sure,
George.
>>NOORY: What do you think
worldwide is the biggest issue
facing people, humans, today?
>>GLOTZHOBER: The biggest issue?
I think today it's their fear.
I think there's so
many things to fear.
I mean, in the old days,
yeah, as a parent you always
feared for your kids.
But you didn't have to
fear so much for your job.
You could work there for life.
Political parties
seemed to get along
and everything was kind of OK.
You didn't see wars
everywhere all over the Earth.
So there's so much fear today.
And because our brain
is wired for survival,
when we feel that
fear, our brain
wants to give 100% of its
attention to our fears.
And so worth we're just
dealing with our fears day in
and day out, and that's keeping
us from finding the solutions
and moving forward.
I think that's the
biggest danger right now.
>>NOORY: Does that explain
why so many people are just
not happy?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Oh, no question
about it, no question about it,
and anger and fear are
tied so much together.
And the really bad thing
about anger, if I may,
is that most people aren't
going to get angry at people
they don't real well.
You venture anger
in places where you
think you can get away with it.
And that's with the
people closest to you.
So this fear gets us so uptight.
And we get so angry that we're
so fearful that we lash out
to the people we love.
And that's a real travesty.
>>NOORY: It does.
You would think that modern
medicine would understand this,
too, that they
could help people.
Because I think 90%
of illness is mental.
>>GLOTZHOBER: No
question about it.
When you read about
states like Oregon,
where people can go and
get assisted suicide.
The vast majority
of them now are
more and more to
deal with depression
and emotional problems than
actual physical problems.
So yeah, I mean
that's happening.
And the medical
community, there's
a big part of it that's
raising to the forefront.
But they don't get heard.
For some reason, it's so hard to
get what you and I are talking
about today in the classrooms.
>>NOORY: They should
teach this in a classroom.
>>GLOTZHOBER: Why
shouldn't we-- how
would we like it if in second or
third grade, what teachers were
telling us is that, hey,
if we're calm, our lives
and our decisions are
so much better than
if we're angry or fearful.
I have a graphic that
shows three caricatures.
One is red, mad as can be.
One is yellow, fearful.
And one is peaceful in blue.
And I had a student teacher
in Massachusetts put it
up in her classroom
when she student taught.
And she says, which one of these
three do we want to be today,
class?
And they all said, the
blue one, the blue one.
And so kids can pick up on it
so much easier than we can.
And hopefully by all of
us chipping away at it,
we make it better
for everybody else.
>>NOORY: How difficult
is it for people
to just be kind to other
people, to open the door?
Maybe you throw a few bucks
to some homeless person.
How difficult is that?
>>GLOTZHOBER: It's difficult.
And the reason it's difficult
is because our brain
and our emotional system
was put together when the
question was, who's for dinner?
Our ancestors,
when they woke up,
were they going
to go find dinner,
or were they going to be dinner?
And so in that kind
of environment,
that's why our brain grew its
limbic system, our emotions.
Because we didn't
have time to go
on Google to see if
what was running at us
was going to kill us or not.
We needed immediate responses.
So that's why we
have anger and fear.
It kept us alive.
And it's still
running through us.
And those same emotions
of anger and fear
that kept us alive way back
when are the same emotions we're
using in road rage or
in domestic violence.
And so it's difficult, because
we're wired to be like that.
So it really takes motivation.
I don't want to pull
any punches here.
You can change, but
behavioral change is hard,
and you've got to
be committed to it.
>>NOORY: If you could change one
thing about society, just one,
what would that be?
>>GLOTZHOBER: I would want
to change their belief
that the world's a
better place when
I'm calm and peaceful
in my reactions
to the world I live in.
I would love the world
to have that belief.
That belief would
change everything.
>>NOORY: Do you ever walk
away from a situation, Bob,
and just shake your head and
go, why can't they get it?
Why can't people just get it?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Not
only that, sometimes I
have to walk away,
George, and I have
to say, why didn't I get it?
I make the same mistakes
everybody else does.
I've got the same struggles
as anybody watching the show.
And what I've learned is
at least when I walk away,
I now say to myself,
why didn't I get it?
Because what most people do,
they walk away and they say,
why didn't they get it?
And when you walk away
pointing the finger,
nothing ever happens.
>>NOORY: When one day, and I
don't want to be morbid here,
but people are looking at
Bob Glotzhober's tombstone,
and they're standing
over you, what do
you want them to say about you?
>>GLOTZHOBER: Woo.
He made a difference.
>>NOORY: Simple as that.
>>GLOTZHOBER: Simple as that.
>>NOORY: Bob, thanks for
being on the program.
>>GLOTZHOBER: Thanks, George.
It's a pleasure.
>>NOORY: Coach Bob.
Coach Bob.
Website is?
>>GLOTZHOBER:
Www.realchangecoach.com.
>>NOORY: Coach Bob, thanks again
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>>GLOTZHOBER: My
pleasure, George.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: It's
called Real Change.
And when you change your
life, you change your future.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]